When working with Git
and when using Git for managing code,
it all comes down to creating a Git Repository initially.
Because all these Git features and commands can only be used
in projects that have a Git Repository attached to them.
And a Repository simply is a folder
that's part of your project folder
that in the end is used by Git
to track all your code changes
and store all your code snapshots, you could say.
It stores all the metadata that's needed
by Git to allow you to jump back
to older snapshots, for example.
And Git commands are only available
in projects that have such a Repository attached to them.
Now whenever you create a brand new project
it typically doesn't have a Git Repository attached
to it though, and you can therefore easily create one
by running the special Git init command in a project folder.
That's only required once per project
because it's only required to initialize that project
and put it under Gits control, you could say.
And some projects that you might have created
with help of other tools or CLIs
might already do that for you.
In that case, Git init will tell you
that it's not needed anymore though.
For example, if you create new React projects
those typically come with a Git Repository.
But that's not too important here.
This starting project here doesn't have a Repository
attached to it yet, and we can tell
that this is the case if we open our system terminal.
Here in my case on macOS, it's this default macOS terminal.
And we try to run a Git command here in this project folder.
The nice thing about this integrated terminal here
in Visual Studio Code is that it's already navigated
into this project folder,
so all commands I run in this terminal
are executed in this folder.
If you're using a different solution,
you must make sure that you navigate it into this folder
in your terminal or command prompt first
before executing any commands.
So here I now wanna run a Git command.
And even though we haven't learned about it yet
let's run Git add index html.
I'll explain this command later,
for the moment let's just try running this command.
And as you will see it tells me
that this is not a Git Repository,
so that there is no Git Repository yet
and therefore this project can't be managed with Git.
That's why we need to run Git init as a first step,
that command I showed you on the slide.
This will initialize and create such a Git Repository
and kind of attach it to this project folder.
By the way, this also means
that all subfolders of this project are managed by Git.
So if I hit enter, this is created, and what this did
under the hood is, it created an invisible .Git folder
that holds all that Git relevant metadata.
Now that I did initialize this project by running Git init
I can use these other Git commands.
Here in Visual Studio Code with all the default settings
you might also notice that some things changed here,
and for example, the text is now green
or in some other color.
You also might notice that there is a U next to index html
after running Git init in this project folder.
This is just some help provided by Visual Studio Code
which has a strong Git integration
to give you some visual hints that tell you which files
are part of which snapshot and so on.
You can totally ignore that and you don't need that
but it can sometimes help with using Git.
For this course it's not important
that you have this color coding though.
So this project was initialized, or Git was initialized.
How can we now use Git?